doc/source/setup_snmp_booster_module.rst, before:

===============================
SNMP Booster: Install and setup
===============================



SnmpBooster Download Install and Configure
==========================================

  * [[SnmpBooster_how_it_works| What is the SnmpBooster module]]
  * [[Setup SNMP booster module| Install and configure the SNMP acquisition module.]] [You are here]
  * [[snmpbooster_troubleshooting|Reference - SnmpBooster troubleshooting]]
  * [[snmpbooster_design_specification|Reference - SnmpBooster design specification]]
  * [[snmpbooster_dictionary|Reference - SnmpBooster configuration dictionnary]]

Downloads
=========

The SnmpBooster module and genDevConfig are currently in public beta prior to integration within Shinken. You can consult the design specification to see the [[SnmpBooster design specification | current development status]].
  * [[https://github.com/xkilian/genDevConfig]]
  * [[https://github.com/titilambert/shinken/tree/snmp_booster/shinken/modules]]  (snmp_booster branch)
    * Simply right-click and download snmp_poller.py then copy it to shinken/modules/

Requirements
============

The SnmpBooster module requires:

  * Python 2.6+
  * Shinken 1.2+
  * [[http://pysnmp.sourceforge.net/download.html|PySNMP 4.2.1+ (Python module and its dependencies)]]
  * [[http://www.voidspace.org.uk/python/configobj.html#downloading|ConfigObj (Python module)]]
  * [[http://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-memcached/|python-memcached]]
  * memcachedb or memcached package for your operating system (ex. For Ubuntu: apt-get install memcachedb) [[memcached_note|Note]]

The genDevConfig profile generator depends on:

  * Perl 5.004+
  * 4 perl modules available from CPAN and network repositories. genDevConfig/INSTALL has the installation details.

**STRONGLY RECOMMENDED: Use the same version of Python and Pyro on all hosts running Shinken processes.**

Installation
============

SnmpBooster:

  * Install the dependencies
  * Copy the file snmp_poller.py from the git repository to your shinken/modules directory.
  * Configuration steps are listed in the present web page.

genDevConfig:

  * Download and extract the archive to your server.
  * See genDevConfig/INSTALL on how to install and configure it.

Configuration
=============

How to define the SnmpBooster module in the Shinken daemons
-----------------------------------------------------------

You need to modify shinken-specific.cfg, which is located in $shinken/etc/shinken-specific.cfg

Arbiter daemon configuration
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Simply declare the module:

::

  modules SnmpBoosterArbiter

Scheduler daemon configuration
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Simply declare the module:

::

  modules SnmpBoosterScheduler

Poller daemon configuration
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Simply declare the module:

::

  modules SnmpBoosterPoller

SnmpBooster Module declaration
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

You have to declare all least 3 modules.

One for the Arbiter:

::

    define module {
        module_name          SnmpBoosterArbiter
        module_type          snmp_booster
        datasource           /etc/shinken/snmpbooster_datasource/   ; SET THE DIRECTORY FOR YOUR Defaults*.ini FILES
        memcached_host       192.168.1.2   ; SET THE IP ADDRESS OF YOUR memcached SERVER
        memcached_port       21201   ; default port for a memcached process
        loaded_by            arbiter
        show_from_cache      False
    }

One for the Scheduler:

::

    define module {
        module_name          SnmpBoosterScheduler
        module_type          snmp_booster
        datasource           /etc/shinken/snmpbooster_datasource/   ; SET THE DIRECTORY FOR YOUR Defaults*.ini FILES
        memcached_host       192.168.1.2   ; SET THE IP ADDRESS OF YOUR memcached SERVER
        memcached_port       21201   ; default port for a memcached process
        loaded_by            scheduler
        show_from_cache      False
    }

One for the Poller:

::

    define module {
        module_name          SnmpBoosterPoller
        module_type          snmp_booster
        datasource           /etc/shinken/snmpbooster_datasource/   ; SET THE DIRECTORY FOR YOUR Defaults*.ini FILES
        memcached_host       192.168.1.2   ; SET THE IP ADDRESS OF YOUR memcached SERVER
        memcached_port       21201   ; default port for a memcached process
        loaded_by            poller
        show_from_cache      False
    }


If you do not know the IP adress on which your memcache is listening, check under /etc/memcached.conf. Or do a:

::

  netstat -a | grep memcached

If you are running a test on the local machine you can leave memcached on 127.0.0.1 (localhost), but if your poller, scheduler or arbiter is on a different machine, set the memcached to listen on a real IP address.


Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~

:module_name:          Module Name. Example: `SnmpBoosterPoller`
:module_type:          Module type. Must be: `snmp_booster`
:datasource:           Datasource folder. Where all your Defaults*.ini are. Example: `/etc/shinken/snmpbooster_datasource/`
:memcached_host:       Memcached host IP. Example: `192.168.1.2`
:memcached_port:       Memcached host port. Example: `21201`
:loaded_by:            Which part of Shinken load this module. Must be: `poller`, `arbiter` or `scheduler`. Example: `arbiter`
:show_from_cache:      Prefix output by `FROM CACHE` string when datas come from memcached. Usefull for debugging. Default: False


How to define a Host and Service
--------------------------------

Step 1
++++++


Create a template for your SNMP enabled devices.

Sample template:

::

  cd shinken/etc/packs/network/
  mkdir SnmpBooster

  vi shinken/etc/packs/network/SnmpBooster/templates.cfg

To edit the file

::

  define command {
    command_name    check_snmp_booster
    command_line    check_snmp_booster -H $HOSTNAME$ -C $SNMPCOMMUNITYREAD$ -V 2c -t $ARG1$ -i $_SERVICEINST$ -T $_SERVICETRIGGERGROUP$
    module_type     snmp_booster
  }



::

  define service {
    name                    default-snmp-template
    check_command           check_snmp_booster!$_SERVICEDSTEMPLATE$!$_SERVICEINST$!$_SERVICETRIGGERGROUP
    _inst                   None
    _triggergroup           None
    max_check_attempts      3
    check_interval          1
    retry_interval          1
    register                0
  }


::

  host{
    name                    SnmpBooster-host
    alias                   SnmpBooster-host template
    check_command	        check_host_alive
    max_check_attempts      3
    check_interval          1
    retry_interval          1
    use                     generic-host
    register                0
  }


Step 2
++++++

Define some hosts and services. You would typically use genDevConfig or another configuration generator to create these for you.

Mandatory service arguments related to SNMP polling:

::
   _dstemplate		Cisco-Generic-Router  ; Name of a DSTEMPLATE defined in the SnmpBooster config.ini file
   snmpcommunityread    which is set in your resource.cfg file

Optional service arguments related to SNMP polling with default values: 

::

    _inst                   None   ; Could be numeric: 0, None or an instance mapping function like: map(interface-name,FastEthernet0_1)
    _triggergroup           None   ; Name of the triggergroup defined in the SnmpBooster config.ini file to use for setting warning and critical thresholds
   
  
Sample Shinken host and service configuration:

::

  # Generated by genDevConfig 3.0.0
  # Args: --showunused -c publicstring 192.168.2.63
  # Date: Thu Aug 30 17:47:59 2012

  #######################################################################
  # Description: Cisco IOS Software, C2960 Software (C2960-LANBASEK9-M), Version 12.2(50)SE4, RELEASE SOFTWARE (fc1) Technical Support: http://www.cisco.com/techsupport Copyright (c) 1986-2010 by Cisco Systems, Inc. Compiled Fri 26-Mar-10 09:14 by prod_rel_team
  #     Contact: 
  # System Name: SITE1-ASW-Lab04
  #    Location: 
  #######################################################################
  
  define host {
     host_name		192.168.2.63
     display_name		192.168.2.63
     _sys_location	
     address		192.168.2.63
     hostgroups		
     notes		
     parents		
     use			default-snmp-host-template
     register		1
  }
  
  define service {
     host_name		192.168.2.63
     service_description	chassis
     display_name		C2960 class chassis
     _dstemplate		Cisco-Generic-Router
     _inst		0
     use			default-snmp-template
     register		1
  }
  
  define service {
     host_name		192.168.2.63
     service_description	chassis.device-traffic
     display_name		Switch fabric statistics - Packets per Second
     _dstemplate		Device-Traffic
     use			default-snmp-template
     register		1
  }
  
  define service {
     host_name		192.168.2.63
     service_description	if.FastEthernet0_1
     display_name		FastEthernet0_1 Description: Link to Router-1 100.0 MBits/s ethernetCsmacd
     _dstemplate		standard-interface
     _inst		map(interface-name,FastEthernet0_1)
     use			default-snmp-template
     register		1
  }
  


Here is an example configuration of the config.ini file
-------------------------------------------------------

::

  [DATASOURCE]
      OidmyOidDefinition = .1.3.6.1.45.0
      [myOidDefinition] ; Use the same name as the myOidDeiniftion, but omit the leading "Oid"
          ds_type = DERIVE
          ds_calc = 8,*  ; RPN expression : Oid, 8, *  Which means Oid * 8 = ds_calc
          ds_oid = $OidmyOidDefinition
  [DSTEMPLATE]
      [myCiscoRouter]
          ds = myOidDefinition
  [TRIGGER]
      [trigger1]
          warning = RPN expression
          critical = RPN expression
      [trigger2]
          warning = RPN expression
          critical = RPN expression
  [TRIGGERGROUP]
      [CiscoRouterTriggers]
          triggers = trigger1, trigger2</code>

Commit message:

Add autokill for worker to skip memory leak ...

doc/source/setup_snmp_booster_module.rst, after:

===============================
SNMP Booster: Install and setup
===============================



SnmpBooster Download Install and Configure
==========================================

  * [[SnmpBooster_how_it_works| What is the SnmpBooster module]]
  * [[Setup SNMP booster module| Install and configure the SNMP acquisition module.]] [You are here]
  * [[snmpbooster_troubleshooting|Reference - SnmpBooster troubleshooting]]
  * [[snmpbooster_design_specification|Reference - SnmpBooster design specification]]
  * [[snmpbooster_dictionary|Reference - SnmpBooster configuration dictionnary]]

Downloads
=========

The SnmpBooster module and genDevConfig are currently in public beta prior to integration within Shinken. You can consult the design specification to see the [[SnmpBooster design specification | current development status]].
  * [[https://github.com/xkilian/genDevConfig]]
  * [[https://github.com/titilambert/shinken/tree/snmp_booster/shinken/modules]]  (snmp_booster branch)
    * Simply right-click and download snmp_poller.py then copy it to shinken/modules/

Requirements
============

The SnmpBooster module requires:

  * Python 2.6+
  * Shinken 1.2+
  * [[http://pysnmp.sourceforge.net/download.html|PySNMP 4.2.1+ (Python module and its dependencies)]]
  * [[http://www.voidspace.org.uk/python/configobj.html#downloading|ConfigObj (Python module)]]
  * [[http://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-memcached/|python-memcached]]
  * memcachedb or memcached package for your operating system (ex. For Ubuntu: apt-get install memcachedb) [[memcached_note|Note]]

The genDevConfig profile generator depends on:

  * Perl 5.004+
  * 4 perl modules available from CPAN and network repositories. genDevConfig/INSTALL has the installation details.

**STRONGLY RECOMMENDED: Use the same version of Python and Pyro on all hosts running Shinken processes.**

Installation
============

SnmpBooster:

  * Install the dependencies
  * Copy the file snmp_poller.py from the git repository to your shinken/modules directory.
  * Configuration steps are listed in the present web page.

genDevConfig:

  * Download and extract the archive to your server.
  * See genDevConfig/INSTALL on how to install and configure it.

Configuration
=============

How to define the SnmpBooster module in the Shinken daemons
-----------------------------------------------------------

You need to modify shinken-specific.cfg, which is located in $shinken/etc/shinken-specific.cfg

Arbiter daemon configuration
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Simply declare the module:

::

  modules SnmpBoosterArbiter

Scheduler daemon configuration
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Simply declare the module:

::

  modules SnmpBoosterScheduler

Poller daemon configuration
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Simply declare the module:

::

  modules SnmpBoosterPoller

SnmpBooster Module declaration
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

You have to declare all least 3 modules.

One for the Arbiter:

::

    define module {
        module_name          SnmpBoosterArbiter
        module_type          snmp_booster
        datasource           /etc/shinken/snmpbooster_datasource/   ; SET THE DIRECTORY FOR YOUR Defaults*.ini FILES
        memcached_host       192.168.1.2   ; SET THE IP ADDRESS OF YOUR memcached SERVER
        memcached_port       21201   ; default port for a memcached process
        loaded_by            arbiter
        show_from_cache      False
    }

One for the Scheduler:

::

    define module {
        module_name          SnmpBoosterScheduler
        module_type          snmp_booster
        datasource           /etc/shinken/snmpbooster_datasource/   ; SET THE DIRECTORY FOR YOUR Defaults*.ini FILES
        memcached_host       192.168.1.2   ; SET THE IP ADDRESS OF YOUR memcached SERVER
        memcached_port       21201   ; default port for a memcached process
        loaded_by            scheduler
        show_from_cache      False
    }

One for the Poller:

::

    define module {
        module_name          SnmpBoosterPoller
        module_type          snmp_booster
        datasource           /etc/shinken/snmpbooster_datasource/   ; SET THE DIRECTORY FOR YOUR Defaults*.ini FILES
        memcached_host       192.168.1.2   ; SET THE IP ADDRESS OF YOUR memcached SERVER
        memcached_port       21201   ; default port for a memcached process
        loaded_by            poller
        show_from_cache      False
        life_time            1000 ; Nb of checks done before kill the worker (and restart an other one)
    }


If you do not know the IP adress on which your memcache is listening, check under /etc/memcached.conf. Or do a:

::

  netstat -a | grep memcached

If you are running a test on the local machine you can leave memcached on 127.0.0.1 (localhost), but if your poller, scheduler or arbiter is on a different machine, set the memcached to listen on a real IP address.


Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~

:module_name:          Module Name. Example: `SnmpBoosterPoller`
:module_type:          Module type. Must be: `snmp_booster`
:datasource:           Datasource folder. Where all your Defaults*.ini are. Example: `/etc/shinken/snmpbooster_datasource/`
:memcached_host:       Memcached host IP. Example: `192.168.1.2`
:memcached_port:       Memcached host port. Example: `21201`
:loaded_by:            Which part of Shinken load this module. Must be: `poller`, `arbiter` or `scheduler`. Example: `arbiter`
:show_from_cache:      Prefix output by `FROM CACHE` string when datas come from memcached. Usefull for debugging. Default: False


How to define a Host and Service
--------------------------------

Step 1
++++++


Create a template for your SNMP enabled devices.

Sample template:

::

  cd shinken/etc/packs/network/
  mkdir SnmpBooster

  vi shinken/etc/packs/network/SnmpBooster/templates.cfg

To edit the file

::

  define command {
    command_name    check_snmp_booster
    command_line    check_snmp_booster -H $HOSTNAME$ -C $SNMPCOMMUNITYREAD$ -V 2c -t $ARG1$ -i $_SERVICEINST$ -T $_SERVICETRIGGERGROUP$
    module_type     snmp_booster
  }



::

  define service {
    name                    default-snmp-template
    check_command           check_snmp_booster!$_SERVICEDSTEMPLATE$!$_SERVICEINST$!$_SERVICETRIGGERGROUP
    _inst                   None
    _triggergroup           None
    max_check_attempts      3
    check_interval          1
    retry_interval          1
    register                0
  }


::

  host{
    name                    SnmpBooster-host
    alias                   SnmpBooster-host template
    check_command	        check_host_alive
    max_check_attempts      3
    check_interval          1
    retry_interval          1
    use                     generic-host
    register                0
  }


Step 2
++++++

Define some hosts and services. You would typically use genDevConfig or another configuration generator to create these for you.

Mandatory service arguments related to SNMP polling:

::
   _dstemplate		Cisco-Generic-Router  ; Name of a DSTEMPLATE defined in the SnmpBooster config.ini file
   snmpcommunityread    which is set in your resource.cfg file

Optional service arguments related to SNMP polling with default values: 

::

    _inst                   None   ; Could be numeric: 0, None or an instance mapping function like: map(interface-name,FastEthernet0_1)
    _triggergroup           None   ; Name of the triggergroup defined in the SnmpBooster config.ini file to use for setting warning and critical thresholds
   
  
Sample Shinken host and service configuration:

::

  # Generated by genDevConfig 3.0.0
  # Args: --showunused -c publicstring 192.168.2.63
  # Date: Thu Aug 30 17:47:59 2012

  #######################################################################
  # Description: Cisco IOS Software, C2960 Software (C2960-LANBASEK9-M), Version 12.2(50)SE4, RELEASE SOFTWARE (fc1) Technical Support: http://www.cisco.com/techsupport Copyright (c) 1986-2010 by Cisco Systems, Inc. Compiled Fri 26-Mar-10 09:14 by prod_rel_team
  #     Contact: 
  # System Name: SITE1-ASW-Lab04
  #    Location: 
  #######################################################################
  
  define host {
     host_name		192.168.2.63
     display_name		192.168.2.63
     _sys_location	
     address		192.168.2.63
     hostgroups		
     notes		
     parents		
     use			default-snmp-host-template
     register		1
  }
  
  define service {
     host_name		192.168.2.63
     service_description	chassis
     display_name		C2960 class chassis
     _dstemplate		Cisco-Generic-Router
     _inst		0
     use			default-snmp-template
     register		1
  }
  
  define service {
     host_name		192.168.2.63
     service_description	chassis.device-traffic
     display_name		Switch fabric statistics - Packets per Second
     _dstemplate		Device-Traffic
     use			default-snmp-template
     register		1
  }
  
  define service {
     host_name		192.168.2.63
     service_description	if.FastEthernet0_1
     display_name		FastEthernet0_1 Description: Link to Router-1 100.0 MBits/s ethernetCsmacd
     _dstemplate		standard-interface
     _inst		map(interface-name,FastEthernet0_1)
     use			default-snmp-template
     register		1
  }
  


Here is an example configuration of the config.ini file
-------------------------------------------------------

::

  [DATASOURCE]
      OidmyOidDefinition = .1.3.6.1.45.0
      [myOidDefinition] ; Use the same name as the myOidDeiniftion, but omit the leading "Oid"
          ds_type = DERIVE
          ds_calc = 8,*  ; RPN expression : Oid, 8, *  Which means Oid * 8 = ds_calc
          ds_oid = $OidmyOidDefinition
  [DSTEMPLATE]
      [myCiscoRouter]
          ds = myOidDefinition
  [TRIGGER]
      [trigger1]
          warning = RPN expression
          critical = RPN expression
      [trigger2]
          warning = RPN expression
          critical = RPN expression
  [TRIGGERGROUP]
      [CiscoRouterTriggers]
          triggers = trigger1, trigger2</code>
